Meals and Lodging
=================


As per EDD
----------

from https://www.edd.ca.gov/pdf_pub_ctr/de231ph.pdf

WHAT ARE WAGES?

“Wages” are payments made to an employee for personal services
and may be paid by cash, check, or the reasonable cash value of
remuneration paid to an employee in any medium other than cash
(e.g., lodging and meals). Wages in any form other than cash are
measured by the fair market value of the goods given as
compensation for the employee’s services.


from https://edd.ca.gov/Payroll_Taxes/What_Are_Wages.htm

Meals and lodging that are provided free of charge or at a
reduced rate to an employee are wages. If your employees are
covered under a contract of employment or union agreement, the
taxable value of meals and lodging cannot be less than the
estimated value stated in the contract or agreement.

If the cash value is not stated in an employment contract or
union agreement, please refer to the current year’s meals and
lodging values. To determine the value of lodging, multiply the
amount you could rent the property for (ordinary rental value)
by 66 2/3 percent (0.6667). Ordinary rental value may be
calculated on a monthly or weekly basis.

For more information, call the Taxpayer Assistance Center at
1-888-745-3886 or visit your local Employment Tax Office.




from https://edd.ca.gov/Payroll_Taxes/Rates_and_Withholding.htm#MealsandLodging

Meal 		Value
----		-----
Breakfast 	$2.45
Lunch 		$3.70
Dinner 		$5.85
		-----
Total 		$12.00

A meal not identified as either breakfast, lunch, or dinner 	$4.30


Lodging Value

Value is set at 66-2/3 percent of the ordinary rental value to
the public, but not in excess of $1,607.00 per month or less
than $52.10 per week.




So accourding to EDD we could agree to pay part of total wages as follows:

I figure meals at 30 days * $12.00/day = $360.00/mo

I determine housing based on quick look on craig's list.  These
seem to average about 1300/mo, so lodging value could be ~=
$867.00/mo

see:
https://sfbay.craigslist.org/search/eby/roo?nh=61&availabilityMode=0&private_room=1&private_bath=1


Meals	 	$360.00/mo
Housing	 	$867.00/mo
 		-------
Total non-cash $1227.00/mo 



As per IWC
----------

https://www.dir.ca.gov/IWC/IWCArticle15.pdf

IWC Wageorder 15, section 10 has a much lower limit for lodging,
but higher limit for meals.

  10. MEALS AND LODGING
  
  (C) Meals or lodging may not be credited against the minimum wage
      without a voluntary written agreement between the employer and the
      employee. When credit for meals or lodging is used to meet part of the
      employer’s minimum wage obligation, the amounts so credited may 
      not be more than the following:
  
  Effective Jan 1, 2020
  Room occupied alone:	 $56.43/week	
  
  breakfast:	 $4.34
  lunch:	 $5.97
  dinner:	 $8.01
                 -----
  total: 	$18.32  $128.24
			-------	
			$184.67


Monthly this works out to
		
Meals		$548.60/mo
Housing		$242.65/mo
		----------
totol non-cash	$791.25/mo



